Before we go on, I want to talk about
a few operating system commands and
how you can execute those
from within IPython console.
First of all,
I'm going to get a fresh IPython console.
Now if you want to see
what directory you're in,
on a Linux machine or a Mac,
you can type PWD, and I'll show you.
That won't work on a PC, but
it will work in an IPython console
window on a PC, or on a Mac.
If you want to see what files are there,
you can type LS on a Mac, or
a Linux machine to see them.
That won't work on a PC, but
it will work in an IPython console window.
On a PC if you want to
see what your working
directory is you have to type "cd
Now if you type an exclamation
point in front of a command,
IPython will pass that on down to the
underlying operating system so this works.
It won't work within the IPython window.
But it will work if I pass it
down to the PC operating system.
And in a PC if you want to see what
files are there you type DIR in iPython
console when I have to type an exclamation
point in front of pass it all down.
Anyway, there are a couple
of really basic things
that you should know about iPython and
about the operating systems.
Now, we want to move on to reading and
writing files.
Now, before starting that,
I want to get a fresh console window.
I click that on a way,
open an act IPython console here.
Now, let's talk about reading and
writing text files.
Here's an example.
I have a function, I have a textile
up here, humptydumpty.text and
I'm going to print it.
There it is,
now let's see how it did that.
First of all,
we passed it the file name, and
we use the file name to open a file and
we assign the handle to that file infile.
We'll refer to this infile
throughout the rest of the program,
where the line an infile, we'll print
that line and then we'll close the file.
The reason we have and equal blank is
that the text files have a new line at
the end of every line, print has
a new line at the end of every line.
If we had two new lines it would be double
space so we get rid of the one with print.
Now let's do another example.
We will copy one file to another so you
can see how reading and writing differ.
Right, I'm going to copy
humptydumpty.txt to xhumpty.txt.
Okay, and you didn't see anything happened
here because all that had happened
right up here.
There is humpty, there he is,
it's been copied.
Now lets see how we did that.
We had two files, an in-file name and
an out-file name.
Here they are.
Okay.
We open the in-file name and
we all sign the handle in-file,
we'll open the out-file name and
we'll assign a handle out file.
This time we are going to write to it so
we'll use this option W.
For every line in that in file,
we are going to write that line,
and use an out file dot write,
that's a method of out file.
Then we are going to close both files.
It's just simple as that.
Now I want you to write
a function that we'll
take data from the screen and
write it into a file.
Let me show you mine.
I've given you a starter
file,write_to_file(filename,
myname, myage, major).
And this one almost would
write the name out.
So we got to open the file first.
You're going to have to close
the file eventually, okay.
These lines tell you what
you need to do where.
This is mine, this is where I ran it,
and this is where I displayed it.
My name is George, my age is 21,
I major in physics.
You should do something like that.
Here's my solution.
I'll open that file name for write, and
I'll sign out-file as the handle.
Out-file.write, my name is,
then I'll stick in my name and
then a character turn.
Out-file.write my name is.
I'm going to convert my age,
which is a number to a string so
that I can take this string and tack on
this string and then tack on this string.
Then I'm going to pick out found.right and
but
my major I am majoring in but the major.
So and the only thing that you
may have overlooked as you're
sticking in that that conversion and
number trust string.
And then of course you close the file.